Welcome to step number 12 of the course we're making amazing progress in terms of the why and how of
Sept. 12 are kicked off the what what are we going to learn.
We're going to create all of our financial statements by pressing this button here called I a in Step
12.
A stands for inputs and analysis as with the other steps in this entire course.
We only change what is in the white sheet of cells now in order to make the process easier to complete.
From a visual design perspective what I did was this I also made the font color in these white shaded
cells blue.
I did this so it's easier to see what to change and I architected the step 12 part of your spreadsheet
so that you only have to complete the inputs and analysis.
I mean the I a button here.
OK let's move on to why.
Why did I architect this step.
So all you have to do is change the contents of the data.
Because after you complete this IAEA or inputs analysis tab by completing the white Sheas cells with
blue fonts then what happens is this is pretty cool.
Then in the next five tabs you will automatically have all your stuff all of your financial statements
created for you everything meaning the revenue tab which is our Eevee the i s tab which stands for income
statement the biggest tab are the best.
Hi I'm 12.
The best ad which stands for balance sheet the C-f tab which stands for cash flow statement and you'll
also notice notice that there is a another tab a tab called all L L and L L all contains all of the
financial statements and all of the financial ratios that will be automatically created for you.
And I made this with a tab called all as it contains a one tab snapshot of everything that you will
include in the Step 12 section of your financials meaning your business plan.
OK.
Now why not include this other tab here called R E V which stands for revenue because the most important
thing the most important driver when you're forecasting the future by creating financial statement models.
The most important driver is revenue can revenue goes to the top of the income state.
That's why they call it the top line and when they say the bottom line that's profits which is the bottom
net income.
The bottom of your your income statement.
OK so what happens is when you're modeling financials and I've done a lot of this work when I worked
on Wall Street and the hedge fund sector and the venture capital sector.
But when you're doing financial modeling the most important thing to forecast is revenue.
Because a lot of other things on your other financial statements are all just simply a percent of revenue.
Financial modeling is a lot easier than we think.
OK.
Lastly how how are we going to complete Sept. 12th.
So I'm going to walk you through in a lot of detail starting in the next lecture on how to complete
every single cell in the I mean the inputs and analysis.
And I'm going to help you understand what's in the five tabs after the tap.
OK.
Meaning the revenue tab the income statement tab the balance sheet tab the cash flow tab and the all
tab as well.
OK.
Now if you already understand a lot about accounting and finance then just please skip to the next lecture
right now.
But what I want to do is I want to explain to you briefly what an income statement is what a balance
sheet is.
A Cashell statement is and how all three of those financial statements are connected so that you can
enjoy completing this section OK.
So let me let me kick it off with the income statement.
OK.
So and when I explain this stuff to you.
Way to kind of think about what what if these statements didn't exist how would we keep track of all
of our the stuff we own the money we make the money.
OK.
So it's actually a really brilliant process so let me start off with the income statement.
Ok so like I mentioned earlier the income stay at the top is your revenue which is also called sales.
And sometimes you hear people say what your top line growth.
And basically what they're saying is what's the growth of revenue or sales.
And like I said earlier sometimes you'll people here.
You'll hear people say what's the bottom line and what's your bottom line growth.
Well at the bottom of the income statement is net income your profits.
That's YOUR BOTTOM LINE.
And so what happens is the income statements when you file taxes the income statement is the easiest
statement to understand.
And all it does is it basically calculates the cost.
How much money you're making minus all the expenses and costs you can understand what the bottom line
is what the profitability is.
Now does that mean that after we take revenue and we deduct all the expenses meaning salaries for people
cars whatever it might be to run our business.
Does that mean if we take all those expenses deducted from revenue that we know how much more Caproni
get in our pocket.
No because the income statement is kind of a lie.
Now explain what this means.
So what happens is governments from an accounting perspective don't fall asleep on me from an accounting
perspective governments what they do is this they allow you to depreciate certain items over a long
period of time.
I'll explain it this means and this will make a lot of sense why we have the cash flow soon.
But we're still the comes to market.
So let's say that you wanted to buy this.
OK.
And this costs a lot of money.
OK this is pretend but whatever.
And what the government does it allows you to finance things or buy things and then deduct how much
you use of this.
Every single year it's called depreciation.
So let's say that you bought this for 100 bucks and this will last you 10 years.
And every year you can depreciate or expense 10 percent in this case every year.
OK so 10 bucks that's 10 percent a hundred bucks every year.
And the reason that depreciation is awesome is because it allows you to pay less in tax because you
treat depreciation as expense even though you're not paying cash every year for that.
You already bought it.
OK.
I know it's a little bit elusive but the reason that governments do this also is they want you to always
have the best equipment and the newest equipment.
And so they kind of entice you to buy new stuff and it helps the economy too.
And depreciation is different for all products.
So in most countries when you buy a computer you can depreciate that over two years.
When you buy software you can appreciate that over one year.
OK.
So that's enough on depreciation when it comes to buying products.
There's also something else which is well outside the scope of this course which is amortization.
Right.
So if you buy a company and you pay a big premium then the premium that you paid can be amortized or
deduct each year.
That's not a real cash expense.
All right so now that we understand the income statement and by the way when it comes to financial ratios
just stay with me and watch the next couple of lectures and I'll explain how the financial ratios are
calculated and exactly what they mean.
Okay.
And I don't want you to please ever memorized accounting and finance.
I want you to understand it because if you understand it then it's lot more fun and if you understand
then you'll remember forever.
OK.
Now explain when they can save minutes and I explained how when you take revenue and you deduct all
the expenses the profitability doesn't mean the increase in cash in your pocket.
Each each each each quarter or each month or each year because depreciation is the non-tax expense for
example.
So what happens is we look at what's called the cash flow statement re if the income statement a and
it doesn't tell you really what the changes in your your.
Your cash in your pocket every month or every quarter every year then the cash flow statement corrects
it for you.
It tells you how much additional cash you have in your pocket that hurts each each.
Each financial period.
OK good.
Now that we under-staffed Mihailo perspective what an income statement is and what a cash flow statement
is.
Let's quickly talk about the balance sheet.
So how do we keep track of what we own and what we owe meaning debt how do we do that.
Well it's not in the income statement the income statement just tracks what money what your revenue
expenses are.
The cash flow statement just tracks you know how much cash you're getting in your pocket at the end
of each period.
A ballot sheet will tell you exactly what you own and what you will.
OK.
So let me I'll use a different example this time.
OK I'll use this as this bad ass one here and I'm not going to peel off the stickers because it says
DTL which I think is another company.
OK.
Copyright infringement this is pretend.
All right.
So on a balance sheet and everything that you own everything in this world is either owned by you a
bank a government entity or somebody else.
It's all about cheap.
We'll tell you what you own and where you go.
OK and who owns your stuff.
And it's called a balance sheet for a reason.
OK.
And I'm going to humbly challenge you in a loving way to think about this a different way.
So a balance sheet has two sides.
OK it's got stuff you have right now and who owns your stuff.
OK.
So stuff that you that you have in your possession that you own is called Assets.
This is an asset.
OK so let's pretend that you paid 100 bucks for this.
OK.
And it was really expensive.
So you got a loan for half of it.
OK from a bank because you have this hundred or it on one side.
But now you've got a hundred here and the other side of the scale the balance sheet is not balanced
well on the other side is who owns this.
OK so because a hundred bucks and you have here is an asset and you only paid for half it you only own
half of it.
That's called equity equity is something you own.
So you have 50 bucks in ownership of the $100 thing is still not balanced.
And the other part is liabilities.
You've got a loan for 50 bucks.
OK it balances good.
Hundred bucks is the asset on one side and the balance sheet.
The other side is 50 bucks in equity you own invests in 50 bucks in a loan meaning you owe somebody
else for it.
It balances.
OK.
All right.
And as we walk through your financial statements this will make it a lot more sense to ask as well.
Anyway I hope you enjoy the next couple of lectures.
I spent a lot of time putting this financial model together for you based on stuff I've learned working
on Wall Street and starting companies et cetera.
And I made it as simple as possible.
So there's just one point of entry the button and then all the other stuff is automatically created
for you and this is really powerful especially when it comes to putting your entire business plan together
which will do very very soon.
Thanks.